[ZIP TBD]: Block time reduction of 75s -> 25s (#1215)
zcash/zips: zips/draft-valargroup-blocktime-reduction.md

and "network upgrade" are to be interpreted as defined in ZIP 200.
[^zip-0200]

The term "block target spacing" means the time interval between blocks
targeted by the difficulty adjustment algorithm in a given consensus
branch. It is normally measured in seconds. (This is also sometimes
called the "target block time", but "block target spacing" is the term
used in the Zcash Protocol Specification [^protocol-diffadjustment].)

The character § is used when referring to sections of the Zcash Protocol
Specification. [^protocol]

The terms "Mainnet" and "Testnet" are to be interpreted as described in
§ 3.12 'Mainnet and Testnet'. [^protocol-networks]

# Abstract

This proposal specifies a change in the block target spacing from 75
seconds to 25 seconds in NU7, and introduces per-pool action limits for
the Sapling and Orchard shielded protocols.

This solves three problems. 
- Significantly improves the UX for actors who need 1 or 2 conf's. (Near Intents, small payments) The user-latency goes down 3x.
- Increases consensus bandwidth, which amplifies the scaling impact of a future shielded pool which does not require shielded sync.

> - Introduces action limits, which short term more than doubles the Orchard TPS (2.9 → 6.1 TPS), while lowering the impact a DoS attacker can impose on wallets for shielded sync by 42% (270.5 → 156.83 MB/day).

Reviewer: Could you clarify what you mean here? And explain how you arrived at these numbers? Claude's saying it should be 4.1 TPS currently for a block filled with 617 2-action Orchard transactions with an authorized action size of 884B.

Author: Ah, I'm defining TPS based off 2 action txs, which that gives a max of 438 actions / per block.

However you achieve 617 actions per block with ~50 action txs.

This is because ~33% of the overhead of an 2 action tx is the once per tx ZKP. But that gets amortized away with higher action transactions, as a sand-blaster would do

Author: The exact equations can be found in the equation breakdown in: http://164.92.225.227:5174/

  complementary to, and does not compete with, finality mechanisms
  such as Crosslink [^crosslink]. Faster block times improve the
  responsiveness of the base layer regardless of whether an additional finality
  gadget is also deployed.

The throughput goal on its own could be achieved via a block size increase.
However the main goal of this proposal is to foremost improve the transaction
latency.

It is estimated that this reduction in blocktime would increase the stale rate from today's 0.4% to 1.3%. For reference, Ethereum operated at 5.4% stale rate.

There are multiple threat models for rollback attacks. Loosely speaking,
lowering block time while keeping it significantly lower than block propagation 
delay helps improve finality time. This is because more honest
miners quickly build on the block, and the block propagation constraint ensures
stale rates have not significantly increased. See [^slowfastblocks] for 
analysis in various attack models. As this proposal meets the constraint of
keeping stale rates low, this should under the "X% of hashpower is byzantine"
threat model improve user confirmation times by a factor slightly under 3x. 

> Under the posts "Economic" threat model, where the user requires the block

Reviewer 2: "Under the posts"?

    \left\lfloor \dfrac{\mathsf{MaxBlockSubsidy}}{\mathsf{BlossomPoWTargetSpacingRatio} \cdot \mathsf{NU7PoWTargetSpacingRatio} \cdot 2^{\mathsf{Halving}(\mathsf{height})}} \right\rfloor,
      &\text{if } \mathsf{IsNU7Activated}(\mathsf{height})
  \end{cases}
$$

This divides the per-block subsidy by an additional factor of 3 relative
to the post-Blossom subsidy, so that the total issuance per unit of wall
clock time remains the same.

Note: the current post-Blossom block subsidy of 1.5625 ZEC does not
divide evenly by 3. The post-NU7 subsidy is
$\lfloor 156250000 / 6 \rfloor = 26041666$ zatoshi (0.26041666 ZEC),
losing approximately 0.33 zatoshi per block to rounding. Over a full
halving interval of 5,040,000 blocks this amounts to less than 0.017 ZEC
of total underpaid issuance, a negligible amount. Should any of the NSM ZIP's
be accepted, the difference can be credited to the NSM, else it will just be
under-minted from supply.

### Shielded pool action limits

Define the following constants in § 5.3 'Constants':

$$\mathsf{GlobalShieldedBudget} := 306$$
$$\mathsf{OrchardBlockActionLimit} := 306$$
$$\mathsf{SaplingBlockIOLimit} := 300$$

> $$\mathsf{SproutBlockJoinSplitLimit} := 25$$

Reviewer: Do we want to require a higher fee or zip 233 amount above these thresholds instead of making them hard limits?

Author: My suggestion would be to keep them as hard limits, it makes it easier for us to parameterize shielded sync.

I think we should aim to make these softer limits when dynamic fee markets come in place in a later NU, as that will let us more accurately capture "we don't care about the limit in a block, but instead an average over time".

That is still just further improving surge capacity (which were already significantly improving in this ZIP/NU!)

and "network upgrade" are to be interpreted as defined in ZIP 200.
[^zip-0200]

The term "block target spacing" means the time interval between blocks
targeted by the difficulty adjustment algorithm in a given consensus
branch. It is normally measured in seconds. (This is also sometimes
called the "target block time", but "block target spacing" is the term
used in the Zcash Protocol Specification [^protocol-diffadjustment].)

The character § is used when referring to sections of the Zcash Protocol
Specification. [^protocol]

The terms "Mainnet" and "Testnet" are to be interpreted as described in
§ 3.12 'Mainnet and Testnet'. [^protocol-networks]

# Abstract

This proposal specifies a change in the block target spacing from 75
seconds to 25 seconds in NU7, and introduces per-pool action limits for
the Sapling and Orchard shielded protocols.

This solves three problems. 
- Significantly improves the UX for actors who need 1 or 2 conf's. (Near Intents, small payments) The user-latency goes down 3x.
- Increases consensus bandwidth, which amplifies the scaling impact of a future shielded pool which does not require shielded sync.

> - Introduces action limits, which short term more than doubles the Orchard TPS (2.9 → 6.1 TPS), while lowering the impact a DoS attacker can impose on wallets for shielded sync by 42% (270.5 → 156.83 MB/day).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Introduces action limits, which short term more than doubles the Orchard TPS (2.9 → 6.1 TPS), while lowering the impact a DoS attacker can impose on wallets; for example, maximum shielded sync bandwidth for light clients is reduced by 42% (270.5 → 156.83 MB/day).
```

The action limits significantly decrease the number of Sprout and Sapling pool 
outputs available per block, to lower the maximum shielded sync burden under 
attempted DoS.

The emission schedule of mined ZEC will be the same in terms of ZEC/day, 
but this requires the emission per block to be adjusted
to take account of the changed block target spacing.

# Motivation

The motivations for decreasing the block target spacing are:

- **Reduced transaction latency.** Currently, users must wait
  75 seconds on average for even a single confirmation, regardless
  of network utilization. This creates friction for point-of-sale
  payments, exchange deposits, and cross-chain bridge operations. A
  25-second target spacing reduces the expected wait for a first
  confirmation to 25 seconds on average.

- **Greater throughput.** With 3× as many blocks per day and the same

>   2 MB block size limit, we will have allocated higher consensus bandwidth 

Reviewer 2: TODO: determine whether there is higher consensus bandwidth overall after the changes or just higher Orchard bandwidth.

Author: There is higher consensus bandwidth and higher orchard bandwidth!

(To me higher cosnensus bandwidth is a feature at this scale!)

  complementary to, and does not compete with, finality mechanisms
  such as Crosslink [^crosslink]. Faster block times improve the
  responsiveness of the base layer regardless of whether an additional finality
  gadget is also deployed.

The throughput goal on its own could be achieved via a block size increase.
However the main goal of this proposal is to foremost improve the transaction
latency.

It is estimated that this reduction in blocktime would increase the stale rate from today's 0.4% to 1.3%. For reference, Ethereum operated at 5.4% stale rate.

There are multiple threat models for rollback attacks. Loosely speaking,
lowering block time while keeping it significantly lower than block propagation 
delay helps improve finality time. This is because more honest
miners quickly build on the block, and the block propagation constraint ensures
stale rates have not significantly increased. See [^slowfastblocks] for 
analysis in various attack models. As this proposal meets the constraint of
keeping stale rates low, this should under the "X% of hashpower is byzantine"
threat model improve user confirmation times by a factor slightly under 3x. 

> Under the posts "Economic" threat model, where the user requires the block

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Under the post's "Economic" threat model, where the user requires the block
```

rewards built on-top of their payment to exceed the value of the payment, this
significantly improves the variance in confirmation latency. (But makes the 

> mean latency a bit higher due to stale rate) As noted there, this attack model

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
significantly improves the variance in confirmation latency (but makes the 
mean latency a bit higher due to stale rate). As noted there, this attack model
```

is not applied at sizable transactions. Its only potentially applied for small

> value ones, where actually the granularity of block times likely lowers time

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is not applied at sizable transactions. It is only potentially applied for small-valued
transactions, where the granularity of block times likely lowers time
```

until sufficient finality. We do not argue for reducing wall-clock block 

> confirmation counts aside from exisitng 1-2 confirmation users in this ZIP.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
until sufficient finality. We do not argue for reducing block confirmation counts in this ZIP.
```

However, we do expect many classes of users to be able to wall-clock lower 

> theirs under consistent threat modelling of what they choose today.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, we do expect many classes of users to be able to reduce their expected 
time until funds are considered to have been received under threat modelling 
consistent with block confirmation counts they choose today.
```

> However, Zcash uniquely has a second cost on scaling, the shielded sync. Every 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Zcash has a second cost imposed by scaling, the shielded sync. Every 
```

shielded transaction induces a bandwidth overhead for every wallet
and an extra trial decryption, so we must carefully understand the impact a DOS 

> attacker can cause. Today the worst case DOS attack can induce 270.5

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
attacker can cause. Today the worst-case DoS attack can induce 270.5
```

> MB of wallet sync download to clients per day, and 4.8M trial decrypts per

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MB of wallet sync download to clients per day, and 4.8M trial decryptions per
```

day. We propose introducing action limits in Orchard (306 actions per block),
and (input+output) limits for Sapling (300 per block). With these limits, the
worst case becomes 156.83 MB bandwidth and 2.1M trial decrypts per day. This 

> is a 42% improvement in worst case wallet sync bandwidth despite 3x more blocks.

Reviewer 3: Why are we going into this much detail in a Motivation section? The detail should be in a Rationale section.

This yields a 2x in Orchard TPS, and keeps Sapling TPS at a higher level than

> today's Orchard TPS.

Reviewer 3: An approach using per-pool limits is strictly worse than an approach using an overall cost metric in terms of maximizing the capacity available to legitimate users. Let's say you are mainly concerned about Orchard capacity and you want X TPS for Orchard, but you have a Sapling limit of Y and a Sprout limit of Z. With per-pool limits, an adversary's optimal strategy is to fill the capacity starting with the most costly pool, then the next most costly, and so on, up to the block size limit (or whatever other orthogonal limit is hit next). So as the designer setting the limits, you have to set them based on the cost of X+Y+Z, not just X. It is strictly $\frac{cost_X + cost_Y + cost_Z}{cost_X}$ times worse.

Reviewer 3: It looks like this Motivation section has not been updated to take into account the introduction of the global shielded limit, which addresses my point above.

Reviewer 2: @ValarDragon can the overall limit be noted in the paragraph above?

Author: On it!

However, every wallet does have to download every compact block header, which
is 90 bytes. This leads to an extra 200kb of wallet bandwidth per day in
exchange for the improved UX.

The reduced Sapling and Sprout per-block limits are justified by the
current distribution of shielded funds across pools. As of March 2026:

| Pool | Balance | Share of shielded supply |
|------|---------|--------------------------|
| Orchard | 4,511,193 ZEC | 87.5% |
| Sapling | 616,131 ZEC | 12.0% |
| Sprout | 25,480 ZEC | 0.5% |

The vast majority of shielded activity is already in Orchard, and this
trend is expected to continue. The Sapling and Sprout limits are set
generously relative to their current usage while substantially reducing

> their potential for DOS abuse.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
their potential for DoS.
```

> their potential for DOS abuse.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
their potential for DoS.
```

## Stale block rate

The stale rate is the percentage of blocks that get orphaned, which relates to 
mining centralization risk, block propagation delay, and block verification 
times. Today the stale rate is 0.4%, but this may be lower than what pure block
propagation delay may imply due to hashpower centralization in mining pools.

At 25-second block target spacing, the projected stale (orphan) block
rate is approximately 1.3% using theoretical models, or approximately
3.9% using significantly rounded-up estimates of Zcash network propagation 
delays. Both figures are well below Ethereum's historical stale rate of 5.4%
when it operated under proof-of-work. [^forum-proposal]

(TODO: Refine above numbers and expand on them. The 1.3% is derived from a very straightforward method, of estimating propagation delay using the current uncle
rate and block time as a poisson process. The 3.9% is taken from noticing that current p90 block propagation between EU and US nodes is 700ms, and then 

> rounding that up to 1s. This needs to be combined with measuring latencies when the blocks are full, yet it is hard to see how this could risk approaching 2s.)

Reviewer 2: This TODO has not been addressed. The sentence below looks like it is intended to provide some data to evaluate these claims against, but it doesn't look like it matches what's in the parenthetical?

Author: Ah sorry this was done with Evan’s work, will update this zip accordingly

Reviewer 4: updated in 996b80e

> A devnet experiment with 99 geographically-distributed Zebra nodes producing 2MB blocks at 25-second target spacing measured a stale block rate of 4.86% and a fork rate of 0.37%. Both below the safety threshold of 5% set via Ethereum's historical proof-of-work stale rate. The only modification required to get these low rates was to tune TCP configuration (more details in the linked footnote). The devnet's node distribution was significantly more decentralized than today's mainnet, so these figures represent a near worst-case scenario. This indicates that 25-second target spacing can be deployed safely with no gossip or p2p changes. [^devnet-blocktime-test]

Reviewer 2: Is the "fork rate" the same thing as what Zcash has historically referred to as the orphan rate? Or is this the rate of forks of two or more blocks? We have considered the orphan rate to be the percentage of broadcast blocks that end up not being part of the consensus chain in the long term.

## Block processing time

> A prerequisite for shorter block times is that block validation and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A prerequisite for reducing the target block spacing is that block validation and
```

> propagation remain small relative to the target spacing. The per-pool

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
propagation must remain small relative to the target spacing. The per-pool
```

action limits introduced by this proposal ensure that worst-case block
processing time is *lower* per block than today's. The increase in consensus

> bandwidth, and Orchard TPS does mean that full node sync will increase in net

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
bandwidth and Orchard TPS does mean that full node sync will increase in net
```

> time. We accept this trade-off (TODO: be concrete with timing increases, and

Reviewer 2: Unaddressed TODO

> remark that more CPU cores fixes this)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
propagation remain small relative to the target spacing. The per-pool
action limits introduced by this proposal ensure that worst-case
*per-block* processing time is lower than today's. The fact that there
are three times as many blocks in unit time does mean that the *overall*
worst-case proportion of time taken for processing, and the cost of
sync after a given time offline (for both full nodes and light clients)
will increase. We accept this trade-off. (TODO: be concrete with timing
increases, and the effect of parallelism.)
```

**Current worst case:** A full 2 MB block today can contain up to ~617
Orchard actions or ~2,090 Sapling outputs, with no per-pool limits. A fully
packed Orchard block requires verifying all action proofs and spend
authorization signatures for those ~617 actions.

**Proposed worst case:** With the action limits, a block contains at

> most 306 Orchard actions or 300 Sapling IOs. This is roughly half the

Reviewer 2: Is this supposed to be an `or` or an `and`? 
```suggestion
most 306 Orchard actions and a maximum of 300 Sapling input or output items. This is roughly half the
```

> most 306 Orchard actions or 300 Sapling IOs. This is roughly half the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
most 306 Orchard actions or 300 Sapling inputs+outputs. This is roughly half the
```

Reviewer 4: 0d21232f

current Orchard worst case and a fraction of the Sapling worst case.
The per-block verification work is therefore substantially reduced.

**Batch verification.** Orchard transaction verification benefits from
batch validation, where proof and signature verification is amortized

> across multiple transactions. In current node implementations, Orchard

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
across multiple transactions. In Zebra, Orchard
```
Only Zebra matters here because zcashd will have been retired.

transactions are batch-verified in groups of up to 64 transactions

> (each worst case being 2 actions). Zebra has performed batch

Reviewer 2: While wallets pad to 2 actions, this is not a consensus rule; an attacker can create 1-action transactions.
```suggestion
(each worst case being a single action). Zebra has performed batch
```

> (each worst case being 2 actions). Zebra has performed batch

Reviewer 3: Padding is not a consensus rule. For the purpose of calculating a targeted node's least efficient use of batching in a DoS attack, we must assume that the adversary puts only one Orchard action in each transaction, and so the minimum batch size is 64, not 128.

verification during live network syncing since version 3.0.0. With the
action limits, a worst-case block's Orchard bundle can be fully
batch-verified in a small number of batches.

**Estimated timing.** On a typical 4-core machine, worst-case full
block verification (including proof verification for all shielded
components) is estimated at under 500ms for a block at the

> action limits. (TODO: Refine with easily citeable benchmarks)

Reviewer 2: Unresolved TODO. If the draft is intended to be merged with these in place, please leave a comment.

Reviewer 4: added some local benchmarks 996b80e

this matches what we saw in the devnets as well fwiw

Redefine the $\mathsf{Halving}$ function as:

$$
\mathsf{Halving}(\mathsf{height}) :=
  \begin{cases}
    \left\lfloor \dfrac{\mathsf{height} - \mathsf{SlowStartShift}}{\mathsf{PreBlossomHalvingInterval}} \right\rfloor,
      &\text{if not } \mathsf{IsBlossomActivated}(\mathsf{height}) \\\\[1.5ex]
    \left\lfloor \dfrac{\mathsf{BlossomActivationHeight} - \mathsf{SlowStartShift}}{\mathsf{PreBlossomHalvingInterval}}
      + \dfrac{\mathsf{height} - \mathsf{BlossomActivationHeight}}{\mathsf{PostBlossomHalvingInterval}} \right\rfloor,
      &\text{if } \mathsf{IsBlossomActivated}(\mathsf{height}) \text{ and not } \mathsf{IsNU7Activated}(\mathsf{height}) \\\\[1.5ex]
    \left\lfloor \dfrac{\mathsf{BlossomActivationHeight} - \mathsf{SlowStartShift}}{\mathsf{PreBlossomHalvingInterval}}
      + \dfrac{\mathsf{NU7ActivationHeight} - \mathsf{BlossomActivationHeight}}{\mathsf{PostBlossomHalvingInterval}}
      + \dfrac{\mathsf{height} - \mathsf{NU7ActivationHeight}}{\mathsf{PostNU7HalvingInterval}} \right\rfloor,
      &\text{otherwise}
  \end{cases}
$$

Redefine $\mathsf{BlockSubsidy}$ to add a case for post-activation
heights:

$$
\mathsf{BlockSubsidy}(\mathsf{height}) :=
  \begin{cases}

>     \ldots &\text{(prior cases unchanged)} \\\\[1ex]

Reviewer 3: "otherwise" must change to "if $\mathsf{IsBlossomActivated}(\mathsf{height})$ and not $\mathsf{IsNU7Activated}(\mathsf{height})$".

Reviewer 4: 👍 updated in 32373f6

>     \left\lfloor \dfrac{\mathsf{MaxBlockSubsidy}}{\mathsf{BlossomPoWTargetSpacingRatio} \cdot \mathsf{NU7PoWTargetSpacingRatio} \cdot 2^{\mathsf{Halving}(\mathsf{height})}} \right\rfloor,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    \mathsf{floor}\left(\dfrac{\mathsf{MaxBlockSubsidy}}{\mathsf{BlossomPoWTargetSpacingRatio} \cdot \mathsf{NU7PoWTargetSpacingRatio} \cdot 2^{\mathsf{Halving}(\mathsf{height})}}\right),
```
Also add a reference to protocol spec section 2 for $\mathsf{floor}$.

      &\text{if } \mathsf{IsNU7Activated}(\mathsf{height})
  \end{cases}
$$

This divides the per-block subsidy by an additional factor of 3 relative
to the post-Blossom subsidy, so that the total issuance per unit of wall
clock time remains the same.

Note: the current post-Blossom block subsidy of 1.5625 ZEC does not
divide evenly by 3. The post-NU7 subsidy is

> $\lfloor 156250000 / 6 \rfloor = 26041666$ zatoshi (0.26041666 ZEC),

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
$\mathsf{floor}(156250000 / 6) = 26041666$ zatoshi (0.26041666 ZEC),
```

losing approximately 0.33 zatoshi per block to rounding. Over a full
halving interval of 5,040,000 blocks this amounts to less than 0.017 ZEC
of total underpaid issuance, a negligible amount. Should any of the NSM ZIP's

> be accepted, the difference can be credited to the NSM, else it will just be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
be accepted, the difference can be credited to the NSM, otherwise it will just be
```

> under-minted from supply.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
of total underpaid issuance, a negligible amount. Should ZIP 234 be accepted,
the difference will eventually be reissued.
```

### Shielded pool action limits

Define the following constants in § 5.3 'Constants':

$$\mathsf{GlobalShieldedBudget} := 306$$
$$\mathsf{OrchardBlockActionLimit} := 306$$

> $$\mathsf{SaplingBlockIOLimit} := 300$$

Reviewer 2: Given that there's a global limit, why is the Sapling limit needed at all?

$$\mathsf{SproutBlockJoinSplitLimit} := 25$$

For each block at height $\mathsf{height}$ where
$\mathsf{IsNU7Activated}(\mathsf{height})$, the following limits MUST
be satisfied:

**Per-pool limits:**

- The total number of Orchard actions across all transactions in the
  block MUST NOT exceed $\mathsf{OrchardBlockActionLimit}$. That is,

>   $\sum_{\mathit{tx} \in \mathit{block}} \mathit{nActionsOrchard}(\mathit{tx}) \leq 306$.

Reviewer 3: This is currently redundant with the global shielded limit, which deserves a Note.

  $\mathsf{SaplingBlockIOLimit}$. That is,
  $\sum_{\mathit{tx} \in \mathit{block}} (\mathit{nSpendsSapling}(\mathit{tx}) + \mathit{nOutputsSapling}(\mathit{tx})) \leq 300$.

- The total number of Sprout JoinSplits across all transactions in
  the block MUST NOT exceed $\mathsf{SproutBlockJoinSplitLimit}$. That
  is,
  $\sum_{\mathit{tx} \in \mathit{block}} \mathit{nJoinSplit}(\mathit{tx}) \leq 25$.

**Global shielded budget:**

In addition to the per-pool limits, the total shielded cost across all
pools in a block MUST NOT exceed $\mathsf{GlobalShieldedBudget}$. The
shielded cost of a block is defined as:

$$\sum_{\mathit{tx}} \mathit{nActionsOrchard}(\mathit{tx}) \;+\; \sum_{\mathit{tx}} (\mathit{nSpendsSapling}(\mathit{tx}) + \mathit{nOutputsSapling}(\mathit{tx})) \;+\; 2 \times \sum_{\mathit{tx}} \mathit{nJoinSplit}(\mathit{tx}) \;\leq\; 306$$

where the factor of 2 for Sprout JoinSplits reflects that each
JoinSplit produces 2 shielded outputs.

This global budget ensures that the worst-case shielded sync bandwidth
per block is bounded regardless of which combination of pools is used.
If a block's Orchard actions reach the limit of 306, no Sapling or

> Sprout shielded outputs may be included. If both pools are used, their

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sprout shielded outputs may be included. If all pools are used, their
```

Reviewer 4: makes sense, however this sentenced was removed elsewhere therefore marking as resolved

> combined cost must stay within the budget.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
Redundant.

These limits do not apply to the transparent components of
transactions. The overall 2 MB block size limit continues to apply as
before.

> #### Compact sync bandwidth per action

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Rationale: Compact sync bandwidth per action
```

| **Per spend total** | **32 bytes** |
| **Per output total** | **116 bytes** |

With these limits, the worst-case compact sync bandwidth per block is:

- **Orchard:** $306 \times 148 = 45{,}288$ bytes
- **Sapling:** at most $300 \times 116 = 34{,}800$ bytes (all-output
  pathological case)

Due to the global shielded budget, these cannot stack: a block that
uses 306 Orchard actions has zero budget remaining for Sapling or
Sprout. The worst-case compact sync bandwidth per block is therefore
always bounded by the Orchard case at 45,288 bytes.

See the [Rationale](#rationale) section for the full daily bandwidth
analysis.

## Effect on difficulty adjustment

As with the Blossom activation [^zip-0208], the difficulty adjustment
parameters $\mathsf{PoWAveragingWindow}$ and
$\mathsf{PoWMedianBlockSpan}$ refer to numbers of blocks and do *not*
change at activation. The change in the effective value of
$\mathsf{PoWTargetSpacing}$ will cause the block spacing to adjust to
the new target at the normal rate for a difficulty adjustment.

It is likely that the difficulty adjustment for the first few blocks
after activation will be limited by $\mathsf{PoWMaxAdjustDown}$. This

> is not anticipated to cause any problem.

Reviewer 3: @str4d and I simulated this for Blossom, but this is a 3x reduction in target block time, not 2x. I wouldn't expect it to be very much different, but we should re-run the simulation.

Author: Perfect, can I make that a github issue we do as a follow-up?

Its unlikely to be a blocker for this decision. @evan-forbes what difficulty ramp up time do we see on mainnet?

The data from: https://github.com/zcash/zcash/issues/3690#issuecomment-460878043 suggests it will be 300 blocks, we just need to go measure the average block time during this interrim. But it should be quicker than the 6.6 hours shown for 150->75s.

The simple approximation based on the prior data suggests 2.2 hours

Reviewer 4: apologies, forgot to update here alongside the slack update.

I ran some local estimations using zebra's DAA code

using that, and assuming a roughly constant solving rate, we should expect much faster than what was predicted in the previous simulations.

reaches <= 26.25s after 62 blocks, about 35.5 min

this matches the observation of the blossom upgrade which activated at height 653600 and reached a rolling 20 block average of 74s 64 blocks later at 653664.

## Minimum difficulty blocks on Testnet

On Testnet, the minimum-difficulty block threshold defined in ZIP 205
[^zip-0205] and modified by ZIP 208 [^zip-0208] continues to use
$6 \cdot \mathsf{PoWTargetSpacing}(\mathsf{height})$ seconds.
After activation, this threshold becomes $6 \times 25 = 150$ seconds.

## Non-consensus node behaviour

### Default expiry delta

When not overridden by the `-txexpirydelta` option, node
implementations that create transactions use a default expiry delta.
The current default of 40 blocks (approximately 50 minutes at 75-second
spacing) SHOULD change to
$\mathsf{NU7PoWTargetSpacingRatio} \times 40 = 120$
blocks after activation, to maintain the approximate expiry time of

> 50 minutes.

Reviewer 2: Retaining the 50 minute expiry time is useful - there have been a couple of instances where, due to various problems, lockbox disbursement multisig transaction ceremonies have resulted in PCZTs expiring before the signature process could be completed; given issues like this, I wouldn't want to make that wall-clock time shorter.

Author: Perfect glad were on the same page! Marking as resolved

If the `-txexpirydelta` option is set, then the set value SHOULD be
used both before and after activation.

### Block-count-based constants

The following constants, measured in number of blocks, were reviewed.

> Implementations SHOULD scale these by

Reviewer 3: SHOULD NOT for the "No change" ones; SHOULD for the "Scale by 3" ones.

Reviewer 4: sg 996b80e

$\mathsf{NU7PoWTargetSpacingRatio}$ where they represent
a time duration:

| Constant                                    | Current | Post-activation | Notes |
|---------------------------------------------|---------|-----------------|-------|
| `COINBASE_MATURITY`                         | 100     | 100             | No change; security measured in blocks |
| `MAX_REORG_LENGTH`                          | 99      | 99              | No change; follows `COINBASE_MATURITY` |
| `TX_EXPIRING_SOON_THRESHOLD`                | 3       | 3               | No change; |
| `MAX_BLOCKS_IN_TRANSIT_PER_PEER`            | 16      | 48              | Scale by 3 |
| `BLOCK_DOWNLOAD_WINDOW`                     | 1024    | 3072            | Scale by 3 |
| `MIN_BLOCKS_TO_KEEP`                        | 288     | 864             | Scale by 3; keep 6 hours worth of blocks |
| `NETWORK_UPGRADE_PEER_PREFERENCE_BLOCK_PERIOD` | 1728 | 1728           | No change;  |

### Anchor selection depth

ZIP 213 [^zip-0213] recommends selecting an anchor 10 blocks back from
the chain tip when constructing shielded transactions. The recommended
anchor depth SHOULD remain at 10 blocks after activation, reducing the

> wall-clock anchor delay from ~12.5 minutes to ~4.2 minutes. This

Reviewer 2: Note that ZIP 315 now recommends 3 blocks for anchor selection, not 10. Given the potential increase in orphan rates, 3 blocks may be too small after this change.

Author: Resolved in recent commit!

TL;DR ETH POW has never had a 4 block re-org, and given that our uncle rates are less than ETH's mainnets, and our block times are double ETH's, we should expect the same.

the reduced Sapling limit, the post-NU7 Sapling TPS (3.0) still
exceeds the current pre-NU7 Orchard TPS (2.9).

### Fee incentives and DoS resistance

A concern with per-pool limits is that a DoS attacker could fill
the Sapling or Sprout budget to crowd out Orchard transactions (or vice
versa). The global shielded budget prevents this from being worse than
filling any single pool, but it is worth examining whether fee
incentives create an asymmetry.

Under ZIP 317 [^zip-0317], the conventional fee is based on *logical
actions*: each Sapling output or spend counts as one logical action, and
each Orchard action counts as one logical action. The marginal fee per
logical action is the same regardless of pool. Therefore, an attacker
gains no fee advantage by spamming Sapling instead of Orchard (or vice
versa). The cost per unit of shielded budget consumed is identical.

Furthermore, because the global shielded budget is shared, filling
the Sapling budget necessarily reduces the Orchard budget by the same
amount. An attacker who spends their entire budget on Sapling spam at
300 IOs leaves only 6 Orchard actions available in that block. But

> this attack is no cheaper than filling 306 Orchard actions directly,

Reviewer 2: Is this the rationale for the difference between the Orchard limit and the Sapling limit, to ensure that there is always potentially some room for Orchard? The rationale for the difference between these two values is never made clear, AFAICT.

    ZIP: Unassigned

>     Title: Shorter Block Target Spacing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Title: 25-second Block Target Spacing
```
